doc: Additional headers and query parameters (#384)
SAP/cloud-sdk: docs/js/features/connectivity/destination.mdx

  - JavaScript
  - TypeScript
---

import LinkToLatestJsApiDocs from '../../../../src/sap/sdk-js/LinkToLatestJsApiDocs';

Many applications on SAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP) communicate with other systems, e.g. line of business solutions.
SAP BTP provides the concept of _destinations_ for convenient communication between SAP BTP and other systems.
A destination is an object with the following information, among others:

- URL
- authentication configuration
- [proxy settings](./proxy.mdx)

Destinations are managed separately from applications on SAP BTP and can be retrieved through the destination service at runtime.
The reasons to separate destinations and application are manifold:

- You can securely store authentication information that should not be part of application code.
- You can update changing resource locations without updating applications.
- Different customers may want to configure different systems.
- Multiple applications might want to access the same systems.

> The SAP Cloud SDK helps you to authenticate against the destination service and retrieve destinations in your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SAP Cloud SDK helps you to authenticate against the destination service and retrieve destinations into your application.
```

The following example shows a request against the Business Partner service with the SAP Cloud SDK to retrieve the top 5 business partners:

```ts
BusinessPartner.requestBuilder().getAll().top(5).execute(myDestination);
```

`myDestination` is an SAP Cloud SDK representation of a <LinkToLatestJsApiDocs slug="interfaces/sap_cloud_sdk_core.destination" name="destination" />.
The given request is executed against `myDestination`.

## Creating Destinations Manually

> You can construct a destination object manually and pass the destination information directly the `execute()` method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can construct a destination object manually and pass the destination information directly to the `execute()` method.
```

The minimal requirement towards a manually constructed destination is that you provide a `url`.

```ts
.execute({ url: 'https://example.com'})
```

This, however, is not recommended for productive use as you would loose the benefits of separating destinations from applications.

## Referencing Destinations by Name

Instead of defining your destination manually, you can reference it by a name:

```ts
.execute({ destinationName: 'myDestination' })
```

> The SAP Cloud SDK searches for the destination with the given name in the following locations, in order:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SAP Cloud SDK searches for the destination by its name in the following order:
```

Reviewer: Maybe resolver is a better term in this context. But I also like search.

1. local environment variables
2. service binding environment variables
3. SAP BTP's destination service

> In case the same destination name occurs in multiple of the locations, destinations defined in local environment precede service bindings, which in turn precede the destination service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the destination name can be found in multiple locations the precedence rules are the same as the search order. Local environment variables have the highest priority while SAP BTP's destination service has the lowest.
```

Reviewer: I think passive is justified here.

Reviewer: Basically, we use the first occurrence of the destination found. We can stop searching after the first variant of the destination is found, right?

Author: Correct, I tried to bring this in and explain it better.

It is your responsibility as a developer to ensure that the provided value for the `iss` property is valid.

:::

### Additional headers and query parameters on destinations

The destination service has a convention to define static headers and query parameters on destinations.
Create additional properties in your destination and define their values as follows:

- `URL.headers.<header-key>` for headers
- `URL.queries.<query-key>` for query parameters

> For every header or query parameter create on additional property and replace `<header-key>` or `<query-key>` with the name of your header or query parameter and set the according value.

Reviewer 2: `<header-key>` or `<query-key>` to `<header-key>` and `<query-key>`

> For every header or query parameter create on additional property and replace `<header-key>` or `<query-key>` with the name of your header or query parameter and set the according value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For every header or query parameter create on additional property and replace `<header-key>` and `<query-key>` with the name of your header or query parameter and set the according value.
```

> The destination service has a convention to define static headers and query parameters on destinations.
> Create additional properties in your destination and define their values as follows:
> 
> - `URL.headers.<header-key>` for headers
> - `URL.queries.<query-key>` for query parameters
> 
> For every header or query parameter create on additional property and replace `<header-key>` or `<query-key>` with the name of your header or query parameter and set the according value.
> The SAP Cloud SDK adds those additional headers and query parameter for every communication with the given destination.
> 
> :::note
> 
> Other headers or query parameters built by the SAP Cloud SDK are overwritten by additional headers and query parameters on the destination.
> Custom headers and query parameters, however precede the additional properties.
> 
> **Header names** keep their casing but overwrite other headers independent of casing, e.g. `AUTHORIZATION` overwrites `authorization`.
> This does not apply to query **parameter names**`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The destination service has a convention to define static headers and query parameters on destinations.
Create additional properties in your destination and define their values as follows:

- `URL.headers.<header-key>` for headers
- `URL.queries.<query-key>` for query parameters

For every header or query parameter create an additional property and replace `<header-key>` or `<query-key>` with the name of your header or query parameter and set the respective value.
The SAP Cloud SDK adds those additional headers and query parameters for every communication with the given destination.

:::note

Other headers or query parameters built by the SAP Cloud SDK are overwritten by additional headers and query parameters on the destination.
Custom headers and query parameters, however, precede the additional properties.

**Header names** keep their casing but overwrite other headers independent of the casing, e.g. `AUTHORIZATION` overwrites `authorization`.
This does not apply to query **parameter names**`.
```

Author: Done.

It is your responsibility as a developer to ensure that the provided value for the `iss` property is valid.

:::

### Additional headers and query parameters on destinations

> The destination service has a convention to define static headers and query parameters on destinations.

Reviewer: Let's make it clear this is done on the SAP BTP Cockpit side

Create additional properties in your destination and define their values as follows:

> - `URL.headers.<header-key>` for headers

Reviewer: I think a screenshot to explain this would be really helpful.

- `URL.queries.<query-key>` for query parameters

> For every header or query parameter create an additional property and replace `<header-key>` and `<query-key>` with the name of your header or query parameter and set the respective value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create an additional property for every header or query parameter and replace `<header-key>` and `<query-key>` with the name of your header or query parameter and set the respective value.
```

> The SAP Cloud SDK adds those additional headers and query parameter for every communication with the given destination.

Reviewer: Is there always only one parameter? I just don't get all the singular/plural conjunction here

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SAP Cloud SDK adds those additional headers and query parameters for every communication with the given destination.
```

:::note

Other headers or query parameters built by the SAP Cloud SDK are overwritten by additional headers and query parameters on the destination.
Custom headers and query parameters, however, precede the additional properties.

**Header names** keep their casing but overwrite other headers independent of casing, e.g. `AUTHORIZATION` overwrites `authorization`.
This does not apply to query **parameter names**`.

> :::

Reviewer: I'd convert it into a section with a subheading going smth like:

#### Rules of precedence for headers and query parameters

Such subheadings will also help to refer to this part in support via a qualified link.

Then I'd go through the points you provided having an example dummy destination to demonstrate them. The example goes a long way to explain daunting abstractions, especially with multiple special cases.

No hard feelings if you keep it like it is of course. It's just to show that I broke my legs keeping all the entities in my head. I find TS and RUST docs as good examples of this approach.

Create additional properties in your destination in the SAP BTP cockpit and define their values as follows:

- `URL.headers.<header-key>` for headers
- `URL.queries.<query-key>` for query parameters

Replace `<header-key>` and `<query-key>` with the name of your headers or query parameters and set the respective values.

<img
  alt="Additional properties on destination"
  src={useBaseUrl('img/destination-additional-properties.png')}
  class="center"
/>

In the example above, the destination has an `apiKey` header with the value `<my-api-key>` and a `language` query parameter with the value `EN`.

The SAP Cloud SDK adds those additional headers and query parameters for every communication with the given destination.

#### Rules of precedence

The SAP Cloud SDK adds headers and query parameters from different sources.
Some sources take precedence over others (highest to lowest):

1. **custom**: headers/query parameters added to a request directly
2. **additional properties**: headers/query parameters defined on a destination
3. **internal**: headers/query parameters built by the SAP Cloud SDK

> Headers or query paramters built by the SAP Cloud SDK are overwritten by additional headers and query parameters on the destination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Headers or query parameters built by the SAP Cloud SDK are overwritten by additional headers and query parameters on the destination.
```
